Newsletters: add 333 (2024-12-13) (#2069)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2024-12-13-newsletter.md

  Two less severe variants of the vulnerability were also described.
  All LN implementations listed above attempt to mitigate those
  additional risks, but a complete solution awaits additional work on
  [package relay][topic package relay], [channel upgrades][topic channel
  commitment upgrades], and related projects.

  The vulnerability takes advantage of the LN protocol allowing an old
  channel state to commit to a greater amount of onchain fees than the
  fee-paying party controls in the latest state.  For example, in a
  state where Mallory controls 99% of channel balance, she dedicates 98%
  of overall balance to [endogenous][topic fee sourcing] fees.  She then
  creates a new state that pays only minimal fees and forwards 99% of
  channel balance to Bob's side.  By personally mining the old state
  that pays 98% to fees, she can capture those fees for
  herself---reducing the maximum value Bob can receive onchain from his
  expected 99% to an actual 2%.  Mallory can use this method to
  simultaneously steal from about 3,000 channels per block (with each
  channel potentially controlled by a different victim), allowing theft

>   of about $3 million USD per block if the average channel value is

Author: My style has long been "$X USD" and that's what I plan to keep using.  I agree that the extra "USD" is kinda redundant, but I prefer it in the Bitcoin context where some people have taken to using "$" for satoshis.  Also, I think it's the kind of thing that people's eyes tend to gloss over so it doesn't add too much mental overhead (unlike most other redundancies).

  about $1,000 USD.

  Users who became aware of the attack before losing their funds would
  not have been able to protect themselves by shutting down their LN
  nodes, as Mallory may have already created the necessary states.  Even
  if the victims attempted to force close their channels in their latest
  state (e.g., where Bob controls 99% of channel value), Mallory could
  cause them to lose 98% of channel value by sacrificing 1% of channel
  value herself.

  The worst-case vulnerability was fixed, and the less severe variants
  partly mitigated, by limiting the maximum amount of channel value that

>   can be dedicated to fees.  As fees in a earlier state are still

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  can be dedicated to fees.  As fees in an earlier state are still
```

  allowed to be higher than the amount the fee-paying party controls in
  a later state, some theft is still possible---but the amount is
  bounded.  A complete solution awaits improvements in fully

>   [exogenous][topic fee sourcing] fee sourcing, e.g. all states paying

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  [exogenous][topic fee sourcing] fee sourcing, e.g., all states paying
```

  channels in circular paths on the network will eventually become
  depleted if the path is used enough.  When a channel is effectively
  fully depleted, meaning it cannot forward additional payments in the
  depleted direction, the circular path (cycle) is broken.  As each
  cycle in the network graph is successively broken, the network
  converges on a residual graph that has no cycles (a spanning tree).
  This replicates a [prior result][guidi spanning] from researcher
  Gregorio Guidi, although Pickhardt arrived at it from a different
  approach, and also appears to be confirmed in unpublished research by
  Anastasios Sidiropoulos.

  ![Example of cycles, depletion, and residual spanning tree](/img/posts/2024-12-depletion.png)

  Perhaps the most notable insight provided by this result is that
  widespread channel depletion occurs even in a circular economy where
  there are no source nodes (i.e., net spenders) and sink nodes (i.e.,
  net receivers).  If LN was used for every
  payment---customer-to-business, business-to-business, and
  business-to-worker---it would still converge on a spanning tree.

  It's not clear whether nodes would want their channels to be part of

>   the residual spanning tree or not.  One one hand, that tree represents

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  the residual spanning tree or not.  On one hand, that tree represents
```

  the last part of the network that would still be capable of forwarding
  payments---it's equivalent to a hub-and-spoke topology---so it may be
  possible to charge high forwarding fees across the residual channels.
  On the other hand, the residual channels are what's left after all
  other channels have already collected fees to depletion.

  Although a channel with higher forwarding fees is less likely to
  become depleted (all other things being equal), the properties of
  other channels in the same cycles strongly influence the likelihood of
  depletion, making it challenging for a node operator to attempt to use

>   control over their own forwarding fees alone to prevent depletion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  control over their forwarding fees alone to prevent depletion.
```

  Higher capacity channels are also less likely to become depleted than
  lower capacity channels.  That seems obvious, but carefully
  considering the reason for it yields a surprising insight about k>2
  multiparty offchain protocols.  A higher capacity channel supports a

>   greater number of wealth distributions between its participants, so

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  greater variety of wealth distributions between its participants, so
```
?

Author: I prefer number.  "Variety" implies to me non-equivalence between distributions, e.g. {{Larry: flowers, Dave: apples}, {Larry: horses, Dave: sand}}.  What we're trying to imply here is name of states where the same total amount of wealth can be divided, all of which total to 100%, e.g. {{Larry: 1, Dave: 2}, {Larry: 2, Dave: 1}}.  "Number" feels more natural to me for that.

  payments through it remain feasible when equivalent payments through
  lower capacity channels would exhaust a party's balance.  For two
  participants, as in current-generation LN channels, each additional
  satoshi given to capacity will increase the range of the wealth
  distribution by one.  However, in [channel factories][topic channel
  factories] and other multiparty constructions that allow funds to move
  offchain between _k_ parties, each additional sat given to capacity
  increases the range of wealth distributions by one _for each of the

>   k parties_---greatly increasing the number of feasible payments and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  k parties_---significantly increasing the number of feasible payments and
```

  reducing the risk of depletion.

>   For example, consider an example of the current LN where Alice has

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Consider an example of the current LN where Alice has
```

>   channels with Bob and Carol, who also each have a channel with each

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  channels with Bob and Carol, who also have a channel with each
```

  other: {AB, AC, BC}.  Each channel has a capacity of 1 BTC.  In this
  configuration, the maximum value Alice can control (and thus send or

>   receive) is 2 BTC.  The same limit applies to Bob and Carol.  The same

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  receive) is 2 BTC.  The same limit applies to Bob and Carol.  These
```

>   limits would also apply if the total 3 BTC was used to recreate all

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  limits would also apply if a total of 3 BTC were used to recreate all
```

  three channels in a channel factory; however, if the factory
  remained operational, an offchain state update between all three
  parties could allow Alice to control up to the full 3 BTC, and thus
  she could send or receive up to 3 BTC (the same for Bob and Carol).
  This use of multiparty offchain protocols allows the same amount of
  capital to give each participant access to higher-capacity channels
  that are less likely to become depleted.  Fewer depletions and a

>   greater range of feasible payments correspond to a greater maximum

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  expanded range of feasible payments correspond to a greater maximum
```

  throughput of LN, as Pickhardt has written about before (see
  Newsletters [#309][news309 feasible] and [#325][news325 feasible]).

>   Both in his post and in the Optech Deep Dive discussion, Pickhardt

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  In his post and in the Optech Deep Dive discussion, Pickhardt
```

  sought data (e.g., from large LSPs) that could be used to help
  validate the simulated results.

- **Poll of opinions about covenant proposals:** /dev/fd0 [posted][fd0
  poll] to the Bitcoin-Dev mailing list a link to a [public poll][wiki
  poll] of developer opinions about selected covenant proposals.  Yuval
  Kogman [noted][kogman poll] that developers were asked to evaluate
  both the "technical merit of [each] proposal" and their "vibes-based

>   opinion about [its] community support", but without developers being

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  opinion about [its] community support," but without developers being
```

  able to express all possible combinations of the two through the
  poll's limited options.  Jonas Nick [requested][nick poll] "separating

>   technical evaluations from community support" and Anthony Towns

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  technical evaluations from community support," and Anthony Towns
```

  [suggested][towns poll] simply asking developers whether they had any

>   outstanding concerns about each proposal.  Both Nick and Towns

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  outstanding concerns about each proposal.  Nick and Towns
```

  recommended developers link to evidence and arguments supporting their
  opinions.

>   Although faults in the poll were highlighted, a showing of greater

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Although the discussion highlighted some faults in the poll, a showing of more
```

>   support for some proposals over other proposals may help covenant

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  support for some proposals over others may help covenant
```

  researchers converge on a short list of ideas for the broader

>   community to review.

Author: > I think the table already has enough options and I don't want to confuse everyone with all possible combinations

Anyone who can't handle a poll with nine options is not qualified to comment on technical merit of consensus changes.

>  This has been answered on [mailing list](https://groups.google.com/g/bitcoindev/c/fdxkE1Al4TI/m/O4NNSbRXAgAJ) and there are enough options that a developer could evaluate a propose technically.

Being able to evaluate a proposal technically is not the same as separating technical concerns from community support concerns, especially given Kogman's point about not all states being reachable.

> This is possible with the current table

Yes, but (as with the point above) people who choose to do this may be at a perceived disadvantage to people who select from all available choices.

> These aren't really faults but suggestions and have been answered.

I believe all of these criticisms were meant as identifications of faults, and none of your answers completely satisfied the original criticism.

> did not mention the changes that were made based on feedback

These are all definitely improvements, thank you for making them.  I wasn't aware of some of those changes (they happened before I first looked at the table).  However, I don't think readers of the newsletter would benefit from learning about any of those past changes, so I don't see a need to mention them.

> the primary goal of getting a rough idea about opinion of different developers is achievable with the table.

That's what we say in the conclusion of this news item, although I encourage this table to mainly be used by covenant devs to focus their work.  I don't think the table is useful for non-cov devs or the general public due to the table's many problems and the lack of response from many of the experts we would expect to be involved in an actual soft fork.

- **Incentive-based pseudo-covenants:** Jeremy Rubin [posted][rubin
  unfed] to the Bitcoin-Dev mailing list a link to a [paper][rubin unfed
  paper] he authored about oracle-assisted [covenants][topic covenants].
  The model involves two oracles: a _covenant oracle_ and an _integrity
  oracle_.  The covenant oracle places funds in a fidelity bond and
  agrees to only sign transactions based on a program returning success.
  The integrity oracle can seize funds from a bond by using [accountable
  computing][topic acc] to prove a signature was created for a program
  that did not return success.  If fraud occurs, there is no guarantee
  that a user who lost money due to the covenant oracle's deceit will
  recover lost funds.

  Ethan Heilman independently [posted][heilman slash] to the Bitcoin-Dev
  mailing list a different construction that allows anyone to use a
  fraud proof to punish incorrect signing.  However, in this case, the
  funds are not seized but destroyed.  This ensures a fraudulent signer

>   is punished but prevents any victims from recovering their lost value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  is punished but prevents victims from recovering their lost value.
```

## Bitcoin Core PR Review Club

*In this monthly section, we summarize a recent [Bitcoin Core PR Review
Club][] meeting, highlighting some of the important questions and
answers.  Click on a question below to see a summary of the answer from
the meeting.*

FIXME:stickies-v

{% include functions/details-list.md
  q0="FIXME"
  a0="FIXME"
  a0link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/30239#l-27FIXME"
%}

## Changes to services and client software

*In this monthly feature, we highlight interesting updates to Bitcoin
wallets and services.*

- **Java-based HWI released:**
  [Lark App][larkapp github] is a command line application for interacting with
  hardware signing devices. It uses the [Lark Java library][lark github], a port
  of [HWI][topic hwi] for the Java programming language.

- **Saving Satoshi Bitcoin development education game announced:**
  The [Saving Satoshi][saving satoshi website] website provides interactive
  educational exercises for those new to Bitcoin development.

- **Neovim Bitcoin Script plugin:**
  The [Bitcoin script hints][bsh github] Neovim plugin for Rust shows Bitcoin
  script stack states for each operation within the editor.

- **Proton Wallet adds RBF:**

>   Proton Wallet users can now [RBF][topic rbf] fee bump [their

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Proton Wallet users can now [RBF][topic rbf] fee-bump [their
```

Reviewer 2: We have fee bumping vs fee-bumping in the style guide, but perhaps the hyphen is appropriate here, defer to @harding

Reviewer: Or another idea (I should have suggested this earlier):
```suggestion
  Proton Wallet users can now use [RBF][topic rbf] to fee-bump [their
```

  transactions][proton blog].

## Selected Q&A from Bitcoin Stack Exchange

*[Bitcoin Stack Exchange][bitcoin.se] is one of the first places Optech
contributors look for answers to their questions---or when we have a
few spare moments to help curious or confused users.  In
this monthly feature, we highlight some of the top-voted questions and
answers posted since our last update.*

{% comment %}<!-- https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/search?tab=votes&q=created%3a1m..%20is%3aanswer -->{% endcomment %}
{% assign bse = "https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/a/" %}

FIXME:bitschmidty

## Releases and release candidates

_New releases and release candidates for popular Bitcoin infrastructure
projects.  Please consider upgrading to new releases or helping to test
release candidates._

- [Core Lightning 24.11rc3][] is a release candidate for the next major
  version of this popular LN implementation.

- [LND 0.18.4-beta.rc1][] is a release candidate for a minor version of
  this popular LN implementation.

- [Bitcoin Core 28.1RC1][] is a release candidate for a maintenance

>   version of the predominant full node implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  version of the predominant full-node implementation.
```

- BTCPay FIXME:harding

<!-- FIXME:harding to update section on Thursday -->

## Notable code and documentation changes

_Notable recent changes in [Bitcoin Core][bitcoin core repo], [Core
Lightning][core lightning repo], [Eclair][eclair repo], [LDK][ldk repo],
[LND][lnd repo], [libsecp256k1][libsecp256k1 repo], [Hardware Wallet
Interface (HWI)][hwi repo], [Rust Bitcoin][rust bitcoin repo], [BTCPay
Server][btcpay server repo], [BDK][bdk repo], [Bitcoin Improvement
Proposals (BIPs)][bips repo], [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo],
[Lightning BLIPs][blips repo], [Bitcoin Inquisition][bitcoin inquisition
repo], and [BINANAs][binana repo]._

- [Bitcoin Core #31096][] Package validation: accept packages of size 1

- [Bitcoin Core #31175][] rpc: Remove submitblock pre-checks

- [Bitcoin Core #31112][] Improve parallel script validation error debug logging

- [LDK #3446][] Support Trampoline flag in BOLT12 invoices

- [Rust Bitcoin #3682][] Add API scripts and output files

> - [BTCPay Server #5743][] Multisig/watchonly wallet transaction creation flow proof of concept

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [BTCPay Server #5743][] Multisig/watchonly wallet _transaction creation flow_ proof of concept
```

Author: FYI: this was placeholder text sourced from the commit message.  It gets replaced by @Gustavojfe's write up, so it doesn't need editing.

- [BDK #1756][] fix(electrum): prevent `fetch_prev_txout` from querying coinbase transactions

- [BIPs #1535][] BIP 348: OP_CHECKSIGFROMSTACK

- [BOLTs #1180][] and [BLIPs #48][] Include BIP 353 name info in `invoice_request`s

## Happy holidays!

This is Bitcoin Optech's final regular newsletter of the year.  On

> Friday, December 20th, we'll publish our seventh annual year-in-review

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Friday, December 20, we'll publish our seventh annual year-in-review
```

> newsletter.  Regular publication will resume on Friday, January 3rd.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
newsletter.  Regular publication will resume on Friday, January 3.
```

  multiparty offchain protocols.  A higher capacity channel supports a
  greater number of wealth distributions between its participants, so
  payments through it remain feasible when equivalent payments through
  lower capacity channels would exhaust a party's balance.  For two
  participants, as in current-generation LN channels, each additional
  satoshi given to capacity will increase the range of the wealth
  distribution by one.  However, in [channel factories][topic channel
  factories] and other multiparty constructions that allow funds to move
  offchain between _k_ parties, each additional sat given to capacity
  increases the range of wealth distributions by one _for each of the
  k parties_---greatly increasing the number of feasible payments and
  reducing the risk of depletion.

  For example, consider an example of the current LN where Alice has
  channels with Bob and Carol, who also each have a channel with each
  other: {AB, AC, BC}.  Each channel has a capacity of 1 BTC.  In this
  configuration, the maximum value Alice can control (and thus send or
  receive) is 2 BTC.  The same limit applies to Bob and Carol.  The same

>   limits would also apply if the total 3 BTC was used to recreate all

Reviewer 2: We say the same limit (2 BTC wealth distribution limit, I assume) applies in the channel factory example, but go on the say that 3 BTC for each participant is possible. Perhaps Im confused here.

Author: Added additional description that hopefully clarifies.  Thanks for letting me know it was confusing!

  q1="Prior to this PR, what are the steps for orphan resolution,
  starting from when we notice that the transaction has missing inputs?"
  a1="When a node receives an orphan transaction, it will request the
  parent transaction from the same peer that sent the orphan. Other
  peers aren't actively queried, but may still send us the parent, for
  example when they announce it via an INV message, or when they send
  another orphan with the same missing parent."
  a1link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/31397#l-29"

  q2="What are the ways we may fail to resolve an orphan with the peer
  we request its parents from? What are some reasons things this may
  happen, honest or otherwise?"
  a2="An honest peer may simply have been disconnected, or it may have
  evicted the parent from its mempool. A malicious peer may just not
  respond to the request, or it may send a parent with malleated,
  invalid witness data which results in the parent having the expected
  txid while failing validation."
  a2link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/31397#l-49"

  q3="How could an attacker prevent a node from downloading a 1p1c
  package by exploiting today’s orphan resolution behavior?"

>   a3="An attacker can announce a malleated orphan (see Q2) unsolicited.

Reviewer 2: perhaps for the one-based indexer readers
```suggestion
  a3="An attacker can announce a malleated orphan (see Q3) unsolicited.
```

  Once the malleated orphan transaction is accepted in the orphanage,
  the honest orphan transaction will no longer be accepted because it
  has the same txid. This prevents the package from being relayed.
  Alternatively, an attacker could flood a node with orphan
  transactions. Because the orphanage is limited in size, and
  transactions are evicted randomly, this will affect how well a node
  can download 1p1c packages."
  a3link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/31397#l-64"

  q4="What is the PR’s solution to the problem in the previous question?"

>   a4="Instead of adding the missing parent transaction to the

Reviewer 2: might help convey that the parent is the thing that is missing

```suggestion
  a4="Instead of adding the missing-parent transaction to the
```

Author: I think @stickies-v version without the hyphen is correct here, so I made a different edit to hopefully clarify.

  transaction request tracker, the orphan transaction is added to the
  newly introduced m_orphan_resolution_tracker. This orphan resolution
  tracker schedules when the parent transaction should be requested from
  different peers, and then adds those requests to the regular
  transaction request tracker. Attendees suggested and discussed an
  alternative approach that doesn't require an additional
  m_orphan_resolution_tracker, and this approach will be investigated
  further by the author."
  a4link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/31397#l-81"

  q5="In this PR, which peers do we identify as potential candidates for
  orphan resolution, and why?"
  a5="All the peers who announced a transaction that turned out to be an
  orphan transaction are marked as potential candidates for orphan
  resolution."
  a5link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/31397#l-127"

  q6="What does the node do if a peer announces a transaction that is
  currently a to-be-resolved orphan?"
  a6="Instead of adding the transaction to m_txrequest tracker, the peer
  is added as an orphan resolution candidate. This helps with preventing

>   attacks such as described in Q3."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  attacks such as described in Q4."
```

  interfaces, such as the mining IPC (see Newsletter [#323][news323 ipc]) and
  `net_processing`, to prepare Bitcoin Core for the
  [libbitcoinkernel][libbitcoinkernel project] API project. In addition,
  duplicate blocks submitted with `submitblock` will now persist their data even
  if it was previously pruned and the data will eventually be pruned again when
  the block file is selected for pruning, to be consistent with the behavior of
  `getblockfrompeer`.

- [Bitcoin Core #31112][] extends the `CCheckQueue` functionality to improve
  script error logging during multi-threaded script validation conditions.
  Previously, detailed error reporting was only available when running with
  `par=1` (single-threaded script validation) due to limited information
  transfer between threads. In addition, the logging now includes details about
  which transaction input had the script error and which UTXO was spent.

- [LDK #3446][] adds support for including a [trampoline payment][topic
  trampoline payments] flag on [BOLT12][topic offers] invoices. This doesn't
  provide full support for using trampoline routing or providing trampoline

>   routing service, but serves to lay the groundwork for future functionality.

Reviewer 2: maybe? 

```suggestion
  routing services, but serves to lay the groundwork for future functionality.
```

  Support for trampoline payments is a prerequisite for [async payments][topic
  async payments].

> - [[Rust Bitcoin #3682][] adds several tools to stabilize the public API

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Rust Bitcoin #3682][] adds several tools to stabilize the public API
```

>   interface for the `hashes`, `io`, `primates` and `units` crates such as

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  interface for the `hashes`, `io`, `primitives` and `units` crates such as
```

  updated versions if payouts change and signatures haven't been collected. The
  enabled functionality was deemed only possible with hot wallets. This system
  can be extended to send emails when a pending transaction is created to alert
  signers to come online.

- [BDK #1756][] adds an exception to `fetch_prev_txout` to prevent it from
  trying to query the prevouts (outputs from previous transactions) of coinbase
  transactions, since they have none. Previously, this behavior caused
  `bdk_electrum` to crash and the sync or full scan process to fail.

- [BIPs #1535][] merges [BIP348][] for the specification of the
  [OP_CHECKSIGFROMSTACK][topic op_checksigfromstack] opcode, which allows to
  check if a signature signs an arbitrary message. It puts a signature, a
  message, and a public key on the stack, and the signature must match both the
  public key and the message. This is one of the many [covenant][topic
  covenants] proposals, which is often proposed in combination with restoring
  [OP_CAT][topic op_cat].

- [BOLTs #1180][] updates [BOLT12][topic offers] to specify the optional
  inclusion of [BIP353][] human-readable bitcoin payment instructions (see

>   Newsletter [#290][news290 omdns]) in the invoice request, and [BLIPs #48][]
>   updates [BLIP32][] (See Newsletter [#306][news306 blip32]) to reference the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Newsletter [#290][news290 omdns]) in the invoice request and [BLIPs #48][]
  updates [BLIP32][] (See Newsletter [#306][news306 blip32]) to reference the
```

  allowed to be higher than the amount the fee-paying party controls in
  a later state, some theft is still possible---but the amount is
  bounded.  A complete solution awaits improvements in fully
  [exogenous][topic fee sourcing] fee sourcing, e.g. all states paying
  the same commitment transaction fee, which depends on robust package
  relay for [CPFP][topic cpfp] fee bumping in the Bitcoin P2P protocol
  and channel commitment transaction upgrades for LN.

- **Deanonymization vulnerability affecting Wasabi and related software:**
  a developer of GingerWallet [disclosed][drkgry deanon] a method a
  [coinjoin][topic coinjoin] coordinator could use to prevent users from
  gaining any privacy during a coinjoin.  Bitcoin Magazine journalist
  Shinobi [reports][shinobi deanon] that the vulnerability was
  originally discovered in 2021 by Yuval Kogman and [reported][wasabi
  #5439] to the Wasabi development team along with several other
  problems.  Optech has been aware since mid-2022 that Kogman had
  serious outstanding concerns with deployed versions of Wasabi but we
  neglected to investigate further; we apologize to him and Wasabi

>   users for our failure.

Reviewer 3: I appreciate the sincerity 🙏

Author: @1440000bytes For clarity, your issue in #795 appeared to be about Wasabi using Chainanalysis and it was closed on that basis.  I don't even recall it mentioning the concerns by Kogman (although it clearly does).

I became aware of Kogman's concerns when I had a call with him in July 2022 about some privacy research he was doing.  I focused on supporting his research, in the small way that I could, and didn't go back to investigate his concerns about Wasabi.  I respected him a researcher, so I should have investigated, but I was lazy and not keen to get involved in drama.

  developers met in person in October, and several notes from the
  meeting have now been [published][coredev notes].  Discussions topics
  included [adding payjoin support][], creating [multiple binaries][]
  that communicate with each other, a [mining interface][] and [Stratum
  v2 support][], improved [benchmarking][] and [flamegraphs][], an [API
  for libbitcoinkernel][], preventing [block stalling][], improvements
  to [RPC code][] inspired by Core Lightning, resumed [development of
  erlay][], and [contemplating covenants][].

## Bitcoin Core PR Review Club

*In this monthly section, we summarize a recent [Bitcoin Core PR Review
Club][] meeting, highlighting some of the important questions and
answers.  Click on a question below to see a summary of the answer from
the meeting.*

[Track and use all potential peers for orphan resolution][review club 31397]
is a PR by [glozow][gh glozow] that improves the reliability of
orphan resolution by letting the node request missing ancestors from all
peers instead of just the one that announced the orphan. It does so by
introducing `m_orphan_resolution_tracker` which is responsible for

> remembering which peers are candidates for orphan resolution and for

Reviewer 4: I think the original is preferable for [parallel structure](https://owl.purdue.edu/owl/general_writing/mechanics/parallel_structure.html) following "for remembering".

scheduling when to make orphan resolution requests. The approach is

> designed to be bandwidth-efficient, to not be vulnerable to censorship,

Reviewer 4: Here too, parallel structure dictates the alternative would be "to be invulnerable" which I would be okay with but find the current sufficiently clear and succinct, so I'm going to leave as is.

and to load-balance between peers.

{% include functions/details-list.md
  q0="What is orphan resolution?"
  a0="A transaction is referred to as an orphan when the node doesn't
  have at least one of the transactions the orphan is spending from.
  Orphan resolution is the process of trying to find these missing
  transactions."
  a0link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/31397#l-23"

  q1="Prior to this PR, what are the steps for orphan resolution,
  starting from when we notice that the transaction has missing inputs?"
  a1="When a node receives an orphan transaction, it will request the
  parent transaction from the same peer that sent the orphan. Other
  peers aren't actively queried, but may still send us the parent, for
  example when they announce it via an INV message, or when they send
  another orphan with the same missing parent."
  a1link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/31397#l-29"

  q2="What are the ways we may fail to resolve an orphan with the peer

>   we request its parents from? What are some reasons things this may

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  we request its parents from? What are some reasons this may
```

  evicted the parent from its mempool. A malicious peer may just not
  respond to the request, or it may send a parent with malleated,
  invalid witness data which results in the parent having the expected
  txid while failing validation."
  a2link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/31397#l-49"

  q3="How could an attacker prevent a node from downloading a 1p1c
  package by exploiting today’s orphan resolution behavior?"
  a3="An attacker can announce a malleated orphan (see Q2) unsolicited.
  Once the malleated orphan transaction is accepted in the orphanage,
  the honest orphan transaction will no longer be accepted because it
  has the same txid. This prevents the package from being relayed.
  Alternatively, an attacker could flood a node with orphan
  transactions. Because the orphanage is limited in size, and
  transactions are evicted randomly, this will affect how well a node
  can download 1p1c packages."
  a3link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/31397#l-64"

  q4="What is the PR’s solution to the problem in the previous question?"
  a4="Instead of adding the missing parent transaction to the
  transaction request tracker, the orphan transaction is added to the

>   newly introduced m_orphan_resolution_tracker. This orphan resolution

Reviewer 5: For consistency with a previous question.

```suggestion
  newly introduced `m_orphan_resolution_tracker`. This orphan resolution
```

  tracker schedules when the parent transaction should be requested from
  different peers, and then adds those requests to the regular
  transaction request tracker. Attendees suggested and discussed an
  alternative approach that doesn't require an additional

>   m_orphan_resolution_tracker, and this approach will be investigated

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  `m_orphan_resolution_tracker`, and this approach will be investigated
```

## Selected Q&A from Bitcoin Stack Exchange

*[Bitcoin Stack Exchange][bitcoin.se] is one of the first places Optech
contributors look for answers to their questions---or when we have a
few spare moments to help curious or confused users.  In
this monthly feature, we highlight some of the top-voted questions and
answers posted since our last update.*

{% comment %}<!-- https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/search?tab=votes&q=created%3a1m..%20is%3aanswer -->{% endcomment %}
{% assign bse = "https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/a/" %}

- [How long does Bitcoin Core store forked chains?]({{bse}}124973)
  Pieter Wuille explains that with the exception of Bitcoin Core nodes running
  in pruned mode, blocks that a node downloads, regardless of if they are in the
  main chain or not, are stored indefinitely.

- [What is the point of solo mining pools?]({{bse}}124926)
  Murch outlines why a Bitcoin miner might use a mining pool that doesn't divide
  mining rewards to its participants, a _solo mining pool_.

- [Is there a point to using P2TR over P2WSH if I only want to use the script path?]({{bse}}124888)
  Vojtěch Strnad notes the potential cost savings when using P2WSH but points

>   out other [P2TR][topic taproot] benefits including privacy, using a tree of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  out other [P2TR][topic taproot] benefits, including privacy, using a tree of
```

  Previously, detailed error reporting was only available when running with
  `par=1` (single-threaded script validation) due to limited information
  transfer between threads. In addition, the logging now includes details about
  which transaction input had the script error and which UTXO was spent.

- [LDK #3446][] adds support for including a [trampoline payment][topic
  trampoline payments] flag on [BOLT12][topic offers] invoices. This doesn't
  provide full support for using trampoline routing or providing trampoline
  routing service, but serves to lay the groundwork for future functionality.
  Support for trampoline payments is a prerequisite for [async payments][topic
  async payments].

- [[Rust Bitcoin #3682][] adds several tools to stabilize the public API
  interface for the `hashes`, `io`, `primates` and `units` crates such as
  pre-generated API text files, a script that generates those text files using
  `cargo check-api`, a script that easily queries those API text files, and a CI
  job that compares API code and its corresponding text file to easily detect
  unintentional API changes. This PR also updates the documentation to outline

>   the expectations for contributing developers: when they make an update to an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  the expectations for contributing developers: when they update an
```

  feerates. This system allows a payout processor to create pending transactions
  for payouts awaiting signatures, cancel or replace pending transactions with
  updated versions if payouts change and signatures haven't been collected. The
  enabled functionality was deemed only possible with hot wallets. This system
  can be extended to send emails when a pending transaction is created to alert
  signers to come online.

- [BDK #1756][] adds an exception to `fetch_prev_txout` to prevent it from
  trying to query the prevouts (outputs from previous transactions) of coinbase
  transactions, since they have none. Previously, this behavior caused
  `bdk_electrum` to crash and the sync or full scan process to fail.

- [BIPs #1535][] merges [BIP348][] for the specification of the
  [OP_CHECKSIGFROMSTACK][topic op_checksigfromstack] opcode, which allows to
  check if a signature signs an arbitrary message. It puts a signature, a
  message, and a public key on the stack, and the signature must match both the
  public key and the message. This is one of the many [covenant][topic
  covenants] proposals, which is often proposed in combination with restoring

>   [OP_CAT][topic op_cat].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  public key and the message. This opcode, often proposed in combination with restoring
  [OP_CAT][topic op_cat], is one of many [covenant][topic covenants] proposals.
```

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #333'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2024/12/13/
name: 2024-12-13-newsletter
slug: 2024-12-13-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter describes a vulnerability that allowed stealing
from old versions of various LN implementations, announces a
deanonymization vulnerability affecting Wasabi and related software,
summarizes a post and discussion about LN channel depletion, links to a
poll for opinions about selected covenant proposals, describes two types
of incentive-based pseudo-covenants, and references summaries of the

> periodic in-person Bitcoin Core developer meeting.  Also include are our

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
periodic in-person Bitcoin Core developer meeting.  Also included are our
```

[LND][lnd repo], [libsecp256k1][libsecp256k1 repo], [Hardware Wallet
Interface (HWI)][hwi repo], [Rust Bitcoin][rust bitcoin repo], [BTCPay
Server][btcpay server repo], [BDK][bdk repo], [Bitcoin Improvement
Proposals (BIPs)][bips repo], [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo],
[Lightning BLIPs][blips repo], [Bitcoin Inquisition][bitcoin inquisition
repo], and [BINANAs][binana repo]._

- [Bitcoin Core #31096][] removes restrictions on the `submitpackage` RPC
  command (see [Newsletter #272][news272 submitpackage]) that disallowed
  packages containing only a single transaction by changing the logic of the
  `AcceptPackage` function and relaxing the checks on `submitpackage`. While a
  single transaction does not technically qualify as a package under the
  [package relay][topic package relay] specification, there is no reason to
  prevent users from submitting transactions that comply with network policies
  using this command.

- [Bitcoin Core #31175][] removes redundant pre-checks from the `submitblock`
  RPC command and `bitcoin-chainstate.cpp` that validate whether a block
  contains a coinbase transaction or is a duplicate, as these checks are already

>   done in `ProcessNewBlock.` This change standardizes behavior across

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  done in `ProcessNewBlock`. This change standardizes behavior across
```

{% comment %}<!-- https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/search?tab=votes&q=created%3a1m..%20is%3aanswer -->{% endcomment %}
{% assign bse = "https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/a/" %}

- [How long does Bitcoin Core store forked chains?]({{bse}}124973)
  Pieter Wuille explains that with the exception of Bitcoin Core nodes running
  in pruned mode, blocks that a node downloads, regardless of if they are in the
  main chain or not, are stored indefinitely.

- [What is the point of solo mining pools?]({{bse}}124926)
  Murch outlines why a Bitcoin miner might use a mining pool that doesn't divide

>   mining rewards to its particpants, a "solo mining pool".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  mining rewards to its participants, a _solo mining pool_.
```
Also maybe consider italicizing instead of quoting, since this is a definition.
